README.md, before:

Two-wheeled Arduino Robot
=======================

![The robot](https://github.com/jmckib/two-wheel-arduino-robot/blob/master/robot.jpg?raw=true)
*No awkward third wheel!*

This is the source code for a robot with two independent wheels. It receives
commands from an RF (radio frequency) remote control.

This is the first robot I've ever built, so don't you judge me! Hopefully
other newbs will find this useful, and the more advanced will have a few
laughs.

## Physical components needed:

For the robot:

- [Tamiya 70168 Double Gearbox Kit](http://www.pololu.com/catalog/product/114): A gearbox plus two 3 volt motors. It only takes about an hour to put this together. Note: you'll need a ruler with mm. You can build it with four different gear ratios; I chose the 38.2:1 gear ratio, the second fastest, for no particular reason.
- [Tamiya 70096 Off-Road Tires (2 tires)](http://www.pololu.com/catalog/product/64): Two wheels that fit on the axle of the Tamiya Double Gearbox.
- [SN754410 Motor Driver IC](http://www.pololu.com/catalog/product/24): Also known as an H-Bridge chip. This is needed to control each motor (make it go forwards and backwards at different speeds) using the arduino digital pins. You can't use the pins directly because they can only provide up to 40 mA of current, while the motor may draw up to 2 A (see [Mabuchi motor FA-130 (#18100) data sheet](http://www.pololu.com/file/download/fa_130ra.pdf?file_id=0J11)).

    The [data sheet](http://www.sparkfun.com/datasheets/IC/SN754410.pdf) is
    pretty helpful in figuring out how to wire this up, in addition to [this
    tutorial](http://itp.nyu.edu/physcomp/Labs/DCMotorControl).

    Warning: this chip is only rated for up to 1 A of current, while the
    motors may draw up to 2 A when stalled. This hasn't caused a problem for
    me yet, but be wary.

- [RF Receiver](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/10532): This is for receiving commands from the remote control.

- Arduino, breadboard, wiring, 2 AA batteries and battery holder (for the motors), 9V battery and battery cap (for the Arduino).

    I could have used one 9V battery for the whole thing, but I would have needed a 3V voltage regulator for the motors, and I didn't have one laying around.

    I used an Arduino Duemilanove, but any recent model should work.

For the remote control:

- [A Wii Nunchuk Controller](http://www.amazon.com/Wii-Nunchuk-Controller-White-nintendo/dp/B000IMYKQ0): This thing has a joystick, two buttons, and a 3-axis accelerometer. I only used the joystick though.
- [WiiChuck adapter](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/9281) and [Break Away Headers](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/116). Solder the headers to the adapter, and you can plug them into a breadboard. The other end plugs into the Nunchuk.
- [RF Transmitter](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/10534): This is for sending commands to the robot.
- Arduino, breadboard, wiring, a 9V battery and battery cap. I used an Arduino Uno, but any recent model should work. Instead of a regular breaboard I used an [Arduino ProtoShield](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/7914) with a [Mini Self-adhesive Breadboard](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/8803) to keep everything compact.

How did I figure out what components to use? I just browsed around on
sparkfun.com and pololu.com until I saw something that looked useful for
building a robot with wheels. I found the Double Gearbox Kit first, and most
of the other components were mentioned in the description/comments or linked
in the related products section.

Commit message:

Clarify in README that this is not a balancing robot.

README.md, after:

Two-wheeled Arduino Robot
=======================

![The robot](https://github.com/jmckib/two-wheel-arduino-robot/blob/master/robot.jpg?raw=true)
*No awkward third wheel!*

This is the source code for a robot with two independent wheels. This is NOT
a balancing robot; I didn't feel like buying another wheel so it just drags
itself around. It receives commands from an RF (radio frequency) remote
control.

This is the first robot I've ever built, so don't you judge me! Hopefully
other newbs will find this useful, and the more advanced will have a few
laughs.

## Physical components needed:

For the robot:

- [Tamiya 70168 Double Gearbox Kit](http://www.pololu.com/catalog/product/114): A gearbox plus two 3 volt motors. It only takes about an hour to put this together. Note: you'll need a ruler with mm. You can build it with four different gear ratios; I chose the 38.2:1 gear ratio, the second fastest, for no particular reason.
- [Tamiya 70096 Off-Road Tires (2 tires)](http://www.pololu.com/catalog/product/64): Two wheels that fit on the axle of the Tamiya Double Gearbox.
- [SN754410 Motor Driver IC](http://www.pololu.com/catalog/product/24): Also known as an H-Bridge chip. This is needed to control each motor (make it go forwards and backwards at different speeds) using the arduino digital pins. You can't use the pins directly because they can only provide up to 40 mA of current, while the motor may draw up to 2 A (see [Mabuchi motor FA-130 (#18100) data sheet](http://www.pololu.com/file/download/fa_130ra.pdf?file_id=0J11)).

    The [data sheet](http://www.sparkfun.com/datasheets/IC/SN754410.pdf) is
    pretty helpful in figuring out how to wire this up, in addition to [this
    tutorial](http://itp.nyu.edu/physcomp/Labs/DCMotorControl).

    Warning: this chip is only rated for up to 1 A of current, while the
    motors may draw up to 2 A when stalled. This hasn't caused a problem for
    me yet, but be wary.

- [RF Receiver](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/10532): This is for receiving commands from the remote control.

- Arduino, breadboard, wiring, 2 AA batteries and battery holder (for the motors), 9V battery and battery cap (for the Arduino).

    I could have used one 9V battery for the whole thing, but I would have needed a 3V voltage regulator for the motors, and I didn't have one laying around.

    I used an Arduino Duemilanove, but any recent model should work.

For the remote control:

- [A Wii Nunchuk Controller](http://www.amazon.com/Wii-Nunchuk-Controller-White-nintendo/dp/B000IMYKQ0): This thing has a joystick, two buttons, and a 3-axis accelerometer. I only used the joystick though.
- [WiiChuck adapter](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/9281) and [Break Away Headers](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/116). Solder the headers to the adapter, and you can plug them into a breadboard. The other end plugs into the Nunchuk.
- [RF Transmitter](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/10534): This is for sending commands to the robot.
- Arduino, breadboard, wiring, a 9V battery and battery cap. I used an Arduino Uno, but any recent model should work. Instead of a regular breaboard I used an [Arduino ProtoShield](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/7914) with a [Mini Self-adhesive Breadboard](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/8803) to keep everything compact.

How did I figure out what components to use? I just browsed around on
sparkfun.com and pololu.com until I saw something that looked useful for
building a robot with wheels. I found the Double Gearbox Kit first, and most
of the other components were mentioned in the description/comments or linked
in the related products section.
